wazevo(docs): optimizing compiler (#2065)
tetratelabs/wazero: site/content/docs/how_the_optimizing_compiler_works/appendix.md

	paramResultStackPtr *uint64,
	goAllocatedStackSlicePtr uintptr)
```

- `preambleExecutable` is a pointer to the generated code for the preamble (see
  below)
- `functionExecutable` is a pointer to the generated code for the function (as
  described in the previous sections).
- `executionContextPtr` is a raw pointer to the `wazevo.executionContext`
  struct. This struct is used to save the state of the Go runtime before
entering or leaving the generated code. It also holds shared state between the
Go runtime and the generated code, such as the exit code that is used to
terminate execution on failure, or suspend it to invoke host functions.
- `moduleContextPtr` is a pointer to the `wazevo.moduleContextOpaque` struct.
  This struct Its contents are basically the pointers to the module instance,
specific objects as well as functions. This is sometimes called "VMContext" in
other Wasm runtimes.
- `paramResultStackPtr` is a pointer to the slice where the arguments and
  results of the function are passed.
- `goAllocatedStackSlicePtr` is an aligned pointer to the Go-allocated stack
  for holding values and call frames. For further details refer to

> [/internal/engine/compiler/engine.go][wazero-engine-stack]

Reviewer: this reference seems invalid and will be deleted in aynway

Author: the actual link is [a permalink to a commit on the old compiler](https://github.com/tetratelabs/wazero/blob/095b49f74a5e36ce401b899a0c16de4eeb46c054/internal/engine/compiler/engine.go#L77-L132), I think that bit is currently only documented there, maybe we should move it to wazevo if it is still relevant

Reviewer: no that comment is nothing to do with how we are using it in the optimizing compiler..

Author: adding a reference to https://deploy-preview-2065--wazero.netlify.app/docs/how_the_optimizing_compiler_works/backend/#prologue-and-epilogue instead

Reviewer: good!

> The ASM trampoline is guaranteed to follow the stable calling convention
> described in [Go's ASM documentation][abi-asm] (sometimes referred to as
> [ABI0][proposal-register-cc]) The trampoline can be found in
> `backend/isa/<arch>/abi_entry_<arch>.s`.

Reviewer: First sentence seems unnecessary and irrelevant 
```suggestion
The trampoline can be found in`backend/isa/<arch>/abi_entry_<arch>.s`.
```

For each given architecture, the trampoline:

> - moves the arguments to some conventional registers that are documented to be
>   free at the time of the call,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- moves the arguments to specific registers to match the behavior of the entry preamble or trampoline function, and
```

- finally, it jumps into the execution of the generated code for the preamble

> The **preamble** is generated distinctly from the rest of the function, and
> before it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **preamble** that will be jumped from `entrypoint` function is generated per function signature.
```

> This is implemented in `machine.CompileEntryPreamble(*ssa.Signature)`.  The
> procedure first instantiates a `backend.FunctionABI` struct with metadata about
> the expected ABI for a function with a given signature.

Reviewer: I don't think this implementation detail is helpful

```suggestion
This is implemented in `machine.CompileEntryPreamble(*ssa.Signature)`. 
```

The preamble sets the fields in the `wazevo.executionContext`.

At the beginning of the preamble:

> - We set a register to point to the `*wazevo.executionContext` struct.
> - we save the stack pointers, frame pointers, return addresses, etc. to that
>   struct.
> - we update the stack pointer to point to `paramResultStackPtr`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Set a register to point to the `*wazevo.executionContext` struct.
- Save the stack pointers, frame pointers, return addresses, etc. to that
  struct.
- Update the stack pointer to point to `paramResultStackPtr`.
```

The generated code works in concert with the assumption that the preamble has
been entered through the aforementioned trampoline. Thus, it assumes that the
arguments can be found in some specific registers.

The preamble then assigns the arguments pointed at by `paramResultStackPtr` to

> the registers that the generated code expects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the registers and stack location that the generated code expects.
```

is generated.

When the generated code needs to return control to the Go runtime, it inserts a
meta-instruction that is called `exitSequence` in both `amd64` and `arm64`
backends.  This meta-instruction sets the `exitCode` in the
`wazevo.executionContext` struct, restore the stack pointers and then returns
control to the caller of the `entrypoint()` function described above.

As described in "[How do compiler functions
work?][how-do-compiler-functions-work]", the mechanism is essentially the same
when invoking a host function or raising an error. However, when a function is
invoked the `exitCode` also indicates the identifier of the host function to be
invoked.

The magic really happens in the `backend.Machine.CompileGoFunctionTrampoline()`
method.  This method is actually invoked when host modules are being
instantiated.  It generates a trampoline that is used to invoke such functions
from the generated code.

This trampoline implements essentially the same prologue as the `entrypoint()`,
but it also reserves space for the arguments and results of the function to be
invoked.

A host function has the signature:

```

> go func(ctx context.Context, stack []uint64)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
func(ctx context.Context, stack []uint64)
```

               |  ReturnAddress  |
               +-----------------+ <----+
               |      xxxx       |      |  ;; might be padded to make it 16-byte aligned.
          +--->|  arg[N]/ret[M]  |      |
 sliceSize|    |   ............  |      | goCallStackSize
          |    |  arg[1]/ret[1]  |      |
          +--->|  arg[0]/ret[0]  | <----+ <-------- arg0ret0AddrReg
               |    sliceSize    |
               |   frame_size    |
               +-----------------+
                  (low address)
```

Finally, the trampoline jumps into the execution of the host function using the
`exitSequence` meta-instruction.

Upon return, the process is reversed.

## Code

- The trampoline to enter the generated function is implemented by the
  `backend.Machine.CompileEntryPreamble()` method.
- The trampoline to return traps and invoke host functions is generated by
  `backend.Machine.CompileGoFunctionTrampoline()` method.

You can find arch-specific implementations in
`backend/isa/<arch>/abi_go_call.go`,
`backend/isa/<arch>/abi_entry_preamble.go`, etc. The trampolines are found
under `backend/isa/<arch>/abi_entry_<arch>.s`.

## Further References

> - Go's [internal ABI documentation][abi-internal] complements Go's ASM
>   documentation with details on the internal, unstable ABI, known as
> *ABIInternal*. Notice that, however, the calling convention for ASM is
> different and described in the ASM documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Go's [internal ABI documentation][abi-internal] details the calling convention similar to the one we use in both arm64 and amd64 backend.
```

> - Go's [internal ASM documentation][abi-asm] describes the stable, stack-based
>   calling convention for ASM (_ABI0_).

Reviewer: this is not relevant 
```suggestion
```

- Raphael Poss's [The Go low-level calling convention on
  x86-64][go-call-conv-x86] is also an excellent reference for `amd64`.

> [abi-asm]: https://go.dev/doc/asm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
